ah psychological tricks to make you feel
at home in the cabin pilots and flight
attendants hiding their own secrets from
passengers whoopee cushions left on the
seats of Economy Class well maybe not
that but what other mysteries are you
unaware of each time you step on board
more than you think
flight attendants assess you as you're
boarding the plane it has nothing to do
with being judgmental just part of their
job for one thing
cabin crew members have to figure out if
you're going to be a safety concern on
the fly next they need to understand
whether you might be a valuable resource
in case of an emergency
spoiler if you're physically fit and
reasonably dressed you are an extra seat
behind the pilot and the copilot in the
cockpit isn't reserved for special VIP
passengers it's for flight attendants
during takeoff or landing and for
inspectors who monitor the fly by the
way this seat is called a jump seat
because when you get up from it it
immediately folds or jumps back up the
cockpit is typically off-limits
not only for passengers but also for
flight attendants during the flight
unless pilots request something but most
crews would go the extra mile to help
passengers have the best flying
experience
airplanes can safely operate with one
engine even during takeoff and landing
the situation when both engines fail at
the same time is almost unheard of but
even if something like that did happen a
plane wouldn't drop from the sky like a
Rai if all engines stopped working at a
high altitude pilots would still have at
least 20 minutes to find a suitable
place to land planes can also land when
their wheels are broken
it may sound terrifying but if the
landing gear gets stuck pilots just skip
the plane's belly down on the runway if
everything is done correctly such
landings are quite safe are you still
hungry after your meal ask for an extra
portion and if it's available
no one will frown upon it provided you
ask politely that is the sad truth is
that all leftovers must be discarded
after the flight and if your stomach
begs for more well less food wasted
modern planes have special systems that
detect other aircraft mountains and
unexpected solid objects in their path
these systems main purpose is to inform
pilots about any nearby obstacles ten
miles away from another plane and a
voice starts saying traffic traffic
traffic I could get on your nerves
five miles closer and the same voice
begins to direct pilots where to go
pilots often work long long hours no
wonder that during particularly tedious
and uneventful flights which are the
flights we passengers love the best they
may feel sleepy and start to nod off in
their seats
it seemed that reading a good exciting
book would help fend off the drowsiness
unfortunately books aren't allowed in
the cockpit they're considered a
distraction ever experience such a hard
landing that you jump in your seat and
go white unlike what most travelers
believe it's not necessarily a sign of
an inexperienced pilot there are some
conditions when a gentle touchdown is
outright dangers the most common
situation when a plane must touch down
firmly is when the runway is wet
then the machine has to break the water
service to avoid hydroplaning flight
attendants aren't there just to serve
food they're highly trained
professionals they know how to deliver a
baby are skilled in hand-to-hand combat
know how to survive in extreme
conditions and can extinguish a fire
30,000 feet in the air
airlines are going to address the
dreaded middle seat problem pretty soon
a new design has already been developed
these improved middle seats will be a
bit lower to the ground than the aisle
and window ones and they'll have three
more inches of additional space most
passengers have a misconception that Co
pilots are just sidekicks or understudy
characters who know little about flying
this belief can't be further from the
truth co-pilots are totally capable of
flying a plane and they do it regularly
it's a typical situation when the
captain flies the plane to the
destination and the co-pilot operates it
on the way back flight attendants have
the same problems with jet lag as you do
imagine flying all the way across the
globe on a regular basis and dealing
with the dimming of cabin lights during
daylight their bodies get confused and
it doesn't pass with time or work
experience airplane manufacturers use a
special trick to make the cabin look
bigger and more spacious for example the
walls have a particular structure that
reflects light that and they're painted
white which always visually expands a
space the illumination between the
ceiling and overhead bins makes the
ceiling look higher it helps people with
claustrophobia to deal with being in an
enclosed space for hours passengers are
also happier when their airplane has a
wider entrance and it's lighting is
brighter research shows that in this
case people are sure that their meals
taste better and their seats are wider
while the only different thing is their
surroundings
pilots recommend nervous fliers to pick
seats in the middle of
the cabin when turbulence occurs it
affects the front and rear parts of the
cabin the most the middle over the wing
section doesn't get shaken that much
imagine it like a seesaw deploying an
emergency slide when there's no
emergency is a very bad idea
it can cause our long delays and cost
Airlines thousands of dollars to pack
the undamaged slide back into its
container why would someone do it
apparently to get off the plane faster
well just keep in mind that it doesn't
work this way now if you want to be a
pilot
be prepared for endless tests and
examinations pilots have their skills
checked every six to eight months they
have to go into simulators and practice
all kinds of emergency situations
after that examiner's assess them
regular and technical testing and
medical examination are also regular and
crucial some airplanes have secret
bedrooms for those crew members who need
to catch some shut-eye crew rest
compartments are located either at the
back of the plane or behind the cockpit
pilots are very careful with what they
say and how they deliver it you'll never
hear them announcing anything dramatic
like fail or malfunction they downplay
any existing problem by replacing zero
visibility with some fog or something's
broken with some technical problems it's
called positive scripting and flight
attendants follow it as well but
passengers perceive pilots announcements
as more important and statistically
listen to them more attentively but if
there's a really serious problem you'll
need to be prepared for don't worry you
will be informed some airlines skip
particular row numbers because they're
considered unlucky in certain cultures
number 13 is the one most commonly
avoided by Airlines and manufacturers
another row number you might not find on
your flight is 17 it's unlucky in some
parts of the world too
if you're in a window seat you can
notice the way the airplane wings flex
sometimes they flap so much that you can
get worried they'll fall off what you
might not know is that the wings are
supposed to flex and are specially
designed this way if they were stiff
they'd snap off as soon as the lightest
turbulence hit the plane now the way the
cabin is pressurized has a big effect on
your taste buds you lose up to 30% of
your ability to taste sweet and salty
things in other words it's not that
airplane food isn't tasty you just can't
feel it's full flavor that's also the
main reason why airline catering
companies add extra salt and spices to
the dishes they cook the first airline
to offer its customers online check-in
was Alaska Airlines and it happened in
1999 the system was available to a
limited number of passengers and worked
only for selected flight Bay if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]